

This is the model described in the article:  
**Photosynthetic oscillations and the interdependence of photophosphorylation and electron transport as studied by a mathematical model.**   
Rovers W, Giersch C. Biosystems. 1995;35(1):63-73. PMID:
[7772723](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/7772723)  
Abstract:  
A simple mathematical model of photosynthetic carbon metabolism as driven by
ATP and NADPH has been formulated to analyse photosynthetic oscillations. Two
essential assumptions of this model are: (i) reduction of 3-phosphoglycerate
to triosephosphate in the Clavin cycle is limited by ATP, not by NADPH, and
(ii) photophosphorylation is affected by the availability of both ADP and
NADP, while electron transport is limited by NADP only. The model produces
oscillations of observed damping and period in ATP and NADP concentrations
which are about 180 degrees out of phase, while three alternative proposals
regarding coupling of electron transport and photophosphorylation do not
produce oscillatory model solutions. The phases of ATP and NADPH are in
reasonable agreement with the available experimental data. The model (which
assumes that redox control of photophosphorylation is part of the oscillatory
mechanism) is compared with an alternative proposal (that oscillations are due
to interdependence of turnover of adenylates and Calvin cycle intermediates).
From the similarity of the mathematical structures of both models it is
inviting to speculate that both models are partial aspects of the oscillatory
mechanism.

  

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not.

To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)

